The text for today, here in Colossians 4, verse 6, sets a standard for us in our speech.
It says, let your words always be gracious, seasoned, with salt.
So we will consider three questions.
The first one, what is gracious speech?
Secondly, why are gracious words so important?
And third, how can we learn to speak graciously?
So that first one, what is gracious speech?
The word gracious has a special meaning.
The Apostle Paul used his Greek word more than 100 times in his writings.
So what is so special about this word?
This word is translated also as undeserved kindness.
And in some cases, it is translated as a kind gift.
So apply it to the words in the text, let your words always be a kind gift.
We can compare this concept with the words of Paul in Ephesians chapter 4.
It says in Ephesians 4, verse 29, the second part of the verse, only what is good for building
up as the need may be to impart what is beneficial to the hearers.
But now note what he says in the first part of this verse, let a rotten word not come out
of your mouth.
That's a strong concept.
Maybe you have had in your refrigerator some food that went off on the outside, it looks fine.
But when you open that lid and that putrid smell comes out, you turn your head away, you close
the lid and you get relevant as fast as you can.
Now think of a conversation you have with your close friend.
You're expecting to hear something really good and upbuilding from him.
But out comes these critical, nasty and negative comments about somebody else or about
some arrangement.
How disappointing.
The smell is just overwhelming, but you cannot react as you would with that container
of food in case you become the next target.
So what do you do?
Just quietly put a lid on that conversation and throw it away.
Now I'm sure all of us have been there at some time, on either side of the conversation,
but now we come to the second part.
Why is it so important to have gracious speech?
Consider the words here in James, James chapter 3.
Now here it says in verse 6, James 3 verse 6, the tongue is also a fire.
The tongue represents a world of unrighteousness among our body members, for it defiles all
the body and sets the whole course of life on fire and it is set on fire by Gehenna.
So who is liable to Gehenna?
It's the one misusing their tongue.
Jesus said the same thing.
Consider his words here in Matthew, Matthew chapter 12, and here Jesus says in verse 36,
he says, I tell you that men will render an account on judgment day for every unprofitable
saying that they speak.
We may say, but is Gehenna judging us on the person we are on the inside?
Exactly.
Look what it says in verse 34, the second part of verse 34, for out of the abundance
of the heart, the mouth speaks.
The words seem to appear from the top of the head, but they really come from the heart.
And Jehovah judges a person on the inside and on the impact day words might have on other
people.
Of course, Jehovah says the most beautiful example for us of kind and gracious speech.
Look at this example in Zechariah, Zechariah chapter 1.
And here in Zechariah chapter 1, an angel of Jehovah is speaking to Jehovah in verse 12.
Now this angel is very distressed because it seems that false worship is gaining the upper
hand and true worship is being pushed aside and he says here in verse 12, oh Jehovah
of armies, how long will you withhold your mercy from Jerusalem and the cities of Judah,
with whom you have been indignant these 70 years?
Now look at verse 13, Jehovah answered the angel who was speaking with me with kind and
comforting words.
Now the account does not say what Jehovah said, but we know Jehovah is gracious and
kind.
So now we come to our third question, how can we learn to be gracious or to have gracious
speech?
Well, there are two principles we would highlight because this is a very complicated subject.
And the first one we would like to highlight is in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 1, Ephesians
chapter 5 is 1.
And there it says, therefore, become imitators of God as beloved children.
Now we know children imitate their parents, they just find it so enjoyable to do something
for their parents, they imitate them.
You see this little girl, she gives a gift to her mother.
Now it is not the best gift to the greatest gift ever, but to the mother it is wonderful.
Why?
Because she is imitating her.
She probably saw her being generous to other people and she imitates that.
And that makes her feel very, very good.
The same with Jehovah.
When we imitate him, we bring joy to his heart.
It is all a matter of appreciation, isn't it?
Nothing builds appreciation more than being grateful to say, thank you.
So thank Jehovah for everything it does for us, every day.
No, we probably don't need to know the half of what he really is doing for us.
But if we thank him all the time.
Every day, make it a point to thank him for the things we see he does for us.
It will engender in our hearts an appreciation for Jehovah.
And we will admire him.
And the more we admire Jehovah, the more we will be inclined to imitate him.
And there is no need to feel unworthy saying, oh wow, I cannot imitate Jehovah.
Now the only qualification needed is to have an appreciative heart.
The second principle we would like to highlight is contained in our text for today, which
says, our words should be seasoned with salt.
Now in Bible times, they didn't have refrigeration.
So in order to preserve food, they would salt them.
They would season them with salt to make sure that the food is not spoiled.
Our words, our gracious words, should preserve the dignity of other people.
It should preserve love and friendships that will last forever.
These words that we speak will come from an appreciative heart.
So look for the good in other people.
And say the right thing to strengthen the good in them.
And we do say the nicest things to those we love, don't we?
So in conclusion, regardless of what we go through or how we feel, always be gracious.
It is never wrong to do good and be kind.
Don't give up and make this the standard of the Sais and Sam 1914.
Let the sayings of my mouth and the meditation of my heart become pleasurable before you,
Jehovah, my rock and my redeemer.